Vivek Ramaswamy — Ending America's Crisis
Bitcoin 2025 Conference
Transcribed by: sarvam-stt-v2.5
Audio duration: 729.4 seconds (~12 minutes)
============================================================

It's good to be back at the Bitcoin conference. 
I was proud to be the first presidential candidate ever to speak at this conference and it is an honor to be back. 
Hopefully to lead the state of Ohio as not only a governor that lifts up the lives of people in my state, but as the strongest pro Bitcoin governor in the nation. 
And I will tell you why that is. today. It actually relates to the history, the legacy of the state that I'm aiming to lead. In the first industrial revolution, Ohio was the state that actually led the way. At the turn of the last century, not a lot of people know this. We were the wealthiest state in the Union. Even in the 1950s, six of the top 15 wealthiest the cities in America were in Ohio, leading in sectors like glass production in Toledo, or Akron in rubber production, or Youngstown in Cleveland in producing steel for the entire Western Hemisphere, to Dayton which led in computing power, to my hometown of Cincinnati, which was known around the world as the Queen City. That was our heritage, the state of the pioneers, the explorers, the unafraid. trade. 
The state that gave Neil Armstrong the self-confidence to become the first man in human history to walk on the moon. 
John Glenn, the first American to go into orbit. 
The Wright brothers taking flight at a moment where that was deemed impossible. 
That's the heritage of the state where I was born and raised and the state that I aim to lead as the next governor. 
And I believe that we can lead the way yet again. Because we are in the middle of a second industrial revolution now. And if Silicon Valley led the way in the last 10 years, I want it to be the Ohio River Valley for the next 10 years. That doesn't just mean the sectors of the past, it also now means the sectors of the future once again as well. And that's why I'm running on a platform to not only bring back semiconductor products, and nuclear energy, but also from biotech to Bitcoin to help lead the United States of America back to greatness. 
And I want to be clear about this. 
My pro Bitcoin position, which I'll get to is distinct from the crypto policy platform I rolled out during my presidential campaign, which I still stand by. 
We have to stand for financial freedoms, for self-custody of your assets, for self- hosting of your own wallets, for being able to have regulatory certainty, using the blockchain to make public expenditures transparent. I stand by all of that, but that is a separate discussion from why we stand for actually Bitcoin as a store of value for the long run because Bitcoin's not like every other cryptocurrency, most importantly because it has a finite supply that's deterministic and mathematically defined. 
And right now we're seeing a trend around the world where the hurdle rate for low risk investments has historically been US Treasuries, which is a good thing. 
But there has not been an appropriate hurdle rate for what the risk rate of return ought to be. 
And in the 21st century, we believe that risk rate of return hurdle is Bitcoin. That's why countless institutions from companies to soon to include sovereigns and other nations are using that as the hurdle rate for actually making any other equity or risk investments. That's a trend that's going to continue. You're going to see it not only in the case of companies, but I believe you're going to see it in the case of sovereign actors, even the United States of America. And I believe the people who lead our 50 states can't be blind. aligned to that reality, but have to actually embrace it and participate in it instead. 
And I will lead Ohio according to that principle of leading from the front to the sectors of the future, not just chasing the past, but to chase the future of American greatness. 
Thank you. 
I appreciate that. 
Now, 
Now I want to get to the core subject that doesn't relate to Ohio but relates to the future of the United States. 
And that That is a problem we face heading into the 250th anniversary of our Declaration of Independence next year. A kid born in the United States of America in the year 2026, sadly, will grow up into a country where what the prior generation may have enjoyed in the form of the federal entitlement state, Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, welfare, you name it. 
Won't actually exist for a kid born in this country next year. 
It's just the math, whether you like it or not. 
That math is running out federally. 
We're in the middle of a national debt crisis of epic and growing proportion at 36 trillion dollars and growing. 
And so the question is what is our actually way out of that. 
I believe America's path out of this national debt crisis and out of the crisis of of dependence on the federal government isn't to double down on that culture of dependence, but rather to achieve independence from it. Independence for America means independence for Americans. That includes financial independence for Americans. And the way we're going to demonstrate what that means is by leveraging what Albert Einstein called the most powerful force in the universe, compound interest. 
I'm gonna talk about how that works. 
The difference between the wealthy and everybody else in the country is whether or not you own an asset that compounds. 
I'm gonna ask the organizers to put up the slide that I asked to prepare for had prepared for today. 
So I'm just gonna put up some simple math on this slide. 
It's a conceptual framework. Simple arithmetic. 
Hypothetically, if you had a kid start at birth with $10,000, that's the left-hand column here. 
And that's compounding annually at a 15% annual rate of return. 
That represents over $160,000 by the time that kid is 20. 
$660,000 plus by the time that kid is 30. 
And and $2.6 million by the time that kid turns the age of 40. 
It would be a generation of multimillionaires built on the back of compound interest. 
In fact, you could even take the $10,000 and give it right back to wherever it came from, and $2.6 million minus $10,000 is still on this math around $2.6 million. 
Now, the rate of return really matters because if that rate rate of return was reduced to as low as 5%, say the yield on US Treasuries, 10-year Treasuries today. 
The compounding math is really different. 
That $10,000 only becomes $70,000 by the age of 40. 
That means that our path out of our financial morass has to run through two things. 
Number one is starting early and starting young. 
The compounding doesn't work unless you start early. and let the magic of time actually work in your favor. 
And number two is the rate of returns actually really matter to the outcomes we're able to deliver. 
And I say this looking towards the 21st century, not looking backwards but to our future. 
If we're really targeting 15% returns, compounding for the next generation of Americans at a rate that actually matters, there's no version of that in the 21st century that does not include a serious discussion about the inclusion of Bitcoin and the assets of the future to drive that compounding for our kids and their generation. To cultivate a generation of millionaires in America without actually apologizing for it. To embrace that success. A generation that's not spiteful to somebody else's success, maybe even those of you in this room, because every kid kid is participating in it with real skin in the game. 
So what can a governor do to help lead the way to that vision where every kid is able to participate in the magic of American capitalism and compounding, to not be spiteful towards the successful by being successful instead. 
One of the things I will do is I will lead Ohio to be the first and top state in the country to integrate financial literacy into our public education. that includes the power of compounding, including education about Bitcoin as an asset class that every young person ought to be aware of as they make those financial decisions. 
To cultivate an education system where our young people aren't trailing China by four years or Singapore by five, but in math, reading, writing, physical education, and yes, financial literacy too. leading not just the country but the world. 
That's what allows our kids to have the building blocks for that American dream. 
But we're not going to just stop there. 
What if we were to turn the dream on this slide into an actual reality? 
Suppose you did it at the level of the United States of America, that first column would be 37 billion dollars, about 3.7 million births. 10,000 dollars, that would be about 3, 37 billion dollars. A lot of money. 
But a minuscule fraction of the 3 trillion dollars that we spent last year on Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid, for an entire generation that won't have a need for that dependence on the entitlement state, because they're actually participating in the power of creating a generation of millionaires in their own right. 
Take that for a thought experiment for now. 
But what I'll be rolling out later this summer in my home state is exactly how we're going to use that to turn around not only Ohio's economy, not only lift up Ohioans from the bottom up, but to be able to also stand for the actual American dream to make it real, to keep workers tied to work requirements in our state at a time where we have a worker shortage. 
To make the American dream American dream real at a moment where so many are skeptical of the American dream. I speak to you as somebody who's the kid of legal immigrants who came to this country over 50 years ago, over 45 years ago with no money. And in a single generation I've gone on to found as many of you have successful companies to be able to now be in a position to hopefully lead that same state where I was born. born and raised. And the extraordinary thing about that story is that it's really not that extraordinary in the United States of America. The land where you're able to achieve the maximum of your own God-given potential without any government or system or bureaucracy standing in your way. The state and the nation where we celebrate the American dream, an idea that we're often told to forget. You're often told to put away that American dream, to let go of it, that it's part of the past. 
I'm here today with a different message. 
Hold on and never let go. 
That's what we want for the American dream. 
That's what's represented by the people in this room. 
And speaking hopefully as the next leader of the state that sent the first man to the moon, we're gonna send it to the moon again. Thank you guys for your support. We're excited to lead the United States back to greatness. Keep fighting and we'll get it done. Thank you. Thank you.  